

This a model from the article:  
**Role of individual ionic current systems in the SA node hypothesized by a model study.**   
Sarai N, Matsuoka S, Kuratomi S, Ono K, Noma A. _Jpn J Physiol_ 2003
Apr;53(2):125-34 [12877768](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/12877768) ,  
**Abstract:**   
This paper discusses the development of a cardiac sinoatrial (SA) node
pacemaker model. The model successfully reconstructs the experimental action
potentials at various concentrations of external Ca2+ and K+. Increasing the
amplitude of L-type Ca2+ current (I(CaL)) prolongs the duration of the action
potential and thereby slightly decreases the spontaneous rate. On the other
hand, a negative voltage shift of I(CaL) gating by a few mV markedly increases
the spontaneous rate. When the amplitude of sustained inward current (I(st))
is increased, the spontaneous rate is increased irrespective of the I(CaL)
amplitude. Increasing [Ca2+](o) shortens the action potential and increases
the spontaneous rate. When the spontaneous activity is stopped by decreasing
I(CaL) amplitude, the resting potential is nearly constant (-35 mV) over 1-15
mM [K+](o) as observed in the experiment. This is because the conductance of
the inward background non-selective cation current balances with the outward
[K+](o)-dependent K+ conductance. The unique role of individual voltage- and
time-dependent ion channels is clearly demonstrated and distinguished from
that of the background current by calculating an instantaneous zero current
potential ("lead potential") during the course of the spontaneous activity.

This model was taken from the [CellML
repository](http://www.cellml.org/models) and automatically converted to SBML.  
The original model was: [ **Sarai N, Matsuoka S, Kuratomi S, Ono K, Noma A.
(2003) - version=1.0**
](http://models.cellml.org/exposure/d109b2cd87073a22ff5583e29acf9226)  
The original CellML model was created by:  
**Alan Garny**   
alan.garny@dpag.ox.ac.uk  
The University of Oxford  

This model originates from BioModels Database: A Database of Annotated
Published Models (http://www.ebi.ac.uk/biomodels/). It is copyright (c)
2005-2011 The BioModels.net Team.  
To the extent possible under law, all copyright and related or neighbouring
rights to this encoded model have been dedicated to the public domain
worldwide. Please refer to [CC0 Public Domain
Dedication](http://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0/) for more
information.

In summary, you are entitled to use this encoded model in absolutely any
manner you deem suitable, verbatim, or with modification, alone or embedded it
in a larger context, redistribute it, commercially or not, in a restricted way
or not..  
  
To cite BioModels Database, please use: [Li C, Donizelli M, Rodriguez N,
Dharuri H, Endler L, Chelliah V, Li L, He E, Henry A, Stefan MI, Snoep JL,
Hucka M, Le Nov√®re N, Laibe C (2010) BioModels Database: An enhanced, curated
and annotated resource for published quantitative kinetic models. BMC Syst
Biol., 4:92.](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/20587024)

